Apache Log4j Core 2.15.0 API
Core API
Package	Description
org.apache.logging.log4j.core	
Implementation of Log4j 2.
Configuration
Package	Description
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.config	
Configuration of Log4j 2.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.config.arbiters	 
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.config.builder.api	
Configuration Builder API for programmatically configuring Log4j.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.config.builder.impl	
Configuration Builder Implementation.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.config.composite	
Support for composite configurations.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.config.json	
Classes and interfaces supporting configuration of Log4j 2 with JSON.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.config.plugins	
Annotations for Log4j 2 plugins.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.config.plugins.convert	
TypeConverter plugins for converter strings into various types.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.config.plugins.processor	
Java annotation processor for pre-scanning Log4j 2 plugins.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.config.plugins.util	
Utility and manager classes for Log4j 2 plugins.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.config.plugins.validation	
Constraint validators for plugin factory methods.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.config.plugins.validation.constraints	
Validation annotations.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.config.plugins.validation.validators	
ConstraintValidator implementations for the constraint annotations.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.config.plugins.visitors	
Visitor classes for extracting values from a Configuration or Node corresponding to a plugin annotation.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.config.properties	
Configuration using Properties files.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.config.status	
Configuration classes for the StatusLogger API.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.config.xml	
Classes and interfaces supporting configuration of Log4j 2 with XML.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.config.yaml	
Classes and interfaces supporting configuration of Log4j 2 with YAML.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.selector	
Log4j 2 Context Selectors.
Core Plugins
Package	Description
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.appender	
Log4j 2 Appenders.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.appender.db	
The classes in this package and sub packages provide appenders for various types of databases and methods for accessing databases.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.appender.db.jdbc	
The JDBC Appender supports writing log events to a relational database using standard JDBC connections.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.appender.mom	
Message oriented middleware appenders.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.appender.mom.jeromq	
Classes and interfaces for ZeroMQ/JeroMQ support.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.appender.mom.kafka	
Classes and interfaces for Kafka appender support.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.appender.nosql	
The NoSQL Appender supports writing log events to NoSQL databases.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.appender.rewrite	
Apache Flume Appender.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.appender.rolling	
Rolling File Appender and support classes.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.appender.rolling.action	
Support classes for the Rolling File Appender.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.appender.routing	
Apache Flume Appender.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.filter	
Log4j 2 Filter support.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.layout	
Log4j 2 Layout support.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.lookup	
Log4j 2 Lookups.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.pattern	
Provides classes implementing format specifiers in conversion patterns.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.script	
Log4j 2 Script support.
Tools
Package	Description
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.net	
Log4j 2 network support.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.net.ssl	
Log4j 2 SSL support
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.tools	
Log4j 2 command line tools.
Internals
Package	Description
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.async	
Provides Asynchronous Logger classes and interfaces for low-latency logging.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.impl	
Log4j 2 private implementation classes.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.jackson	
Classes and interfaces for serializing and deserializing Log4j 2 log events to XML and JSON using the Jackson library.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.jmx	
Log4j 2 JMX support.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.osgi	
Collection of OSGi-specific classes for bundles.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.util	
Log4j 2 helper classes.
org.apache.logging.log4j.core.util.datetime	
Log4j 2 date formatting classes.
